# Data storage

The Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes platform persists technical data that is related to configuration and management of the platform in stateful stores on local or remote file systems as configuration files or in databases. Consideration must be given to securing all data at rest. The Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes platform supports encryption of data at rest in stateful stores that use `dm-crypt`.

The following items highlight the areas where data is stored, which you might want to consider for GDPR.

1. Platform Configuration Data: The Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes platform configuration can be customized by updating a configuration YAML file with properties for general settings, Kubernetes, logs, network, Docker, and other settings. This data is used as input to the Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes platform installer for deploying one or more nodes. The properties also include an administrator user ID and password that are used for bootstrap.
1. Kubernetes Configuration Data: Kubernetes cluster state data is stored in a distributed key-value store, etcd.
1. User Authentication Data, including User IDs and passwords: User ID and password management are handled through a client enterprise LDAP directory. Users and groups that are defined in LDAP can be added to Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes platform teams and assigned access roles. Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes platform stores the email address and user ID from LDAP, but does not store the password. Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes platform stores the group name and upon login, caches the available groups to which a user belongs. Group membership is not persisted in any long-term way. Securing user and group data at rest in the enterprise LDAP must be considered. Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes platform also includes an authentication service, Open ID Connect (OIDC) that interacts with the enterprise directory and maintains access tokens. This service uses `ETCD` as a backing store.
1. Service authentication data, including user IDs and passwords: Credentials that are used by Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes platform components for inter-component access are defined as Kubernetes Secrets. All Kubernetes resource definitions are persisted in the etcd key-value data store. Initial credentials values are defined in the platform configuration data as Kubernetes Secret configuration YAML files. For more information, see Secrets in the Kubernetes documentation.
